Table 1 provides the list of Geneva Conventions categories for uniformed Service personnel.  Civilians authorized by a DoD Component to accompany the U.S. armed forces will be placed in categories listed in Table 2 in accordance with the guidelines in paragraphs a. through i. of this appendix.  The assignment of excessively high Geneva Convention category and rank equivalence shall be avoided.  
a.  Federal Employees.  Experts, consultants, and other special categories of personnel directly employed by the Federal Government will be assigned by the sponsoring DoD Component to an appropriate Geneva Convention Category, normally in the range of categories I through IV, based on a salary or grade comparison with civilian employees listed in columns 4, 5, and 6 of Table 2.  
b.  Foreign Service Personnel.  Personnel in the Foreign Service will be assigned by the sponsoring DoD Component to the appropriate category based on direct salary comparisons with the General Schedule (GS) classification listed in column 3 of Table 2.  
c.  Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employees.  NAF employees will be assigned by the DoD Component concerned to the category based upon their GS equivalent, NAF, Army and Air Force Exchange Service salary, wage, or hourly classification.  Those not so classified will be assigned to an appropriate equivalent, normally in the range of categories I through IV, based on a grade comparison with civilian employees listed in columns 3 through 6 of Table 2.  
d.  Contractors and Other Non-Federal Employees.  Advisors, observers, contractor representatives and employees, representatives of religious organizations, and similar categories of non-Federal personnel will be assigned by the DoD Component concerned to an appropriate category, normally in the range of categories III through IV, based upon the individual’s standing in his or her profession or line of work and the difficulty and responsibility of the duties to be performed (e.g., supervisory or non-supervisory).  
e.  Service Organization Employees.  Employees of service organizations, such as the United Service Organizations (USO) and Salvation Army, will be assigned by the DoD Component concerned to an appropriate category, normally in the range of categories III and IV, as shown in column 9 of Table 2, based on a salary or grade comparison with civilian employees listed in columns 3 through 6 of the Table 2.  